three crew members have been killed in a
houy missile strike on a Liberian owned
cargo ship off Southern Yemen it's the
first deadly attack since the group
began targeting international shipping
last November the owners of the ship
said it was now drifting and on fire
Aruna yanga reports houthi attacks in
the Red Sea have now turned deadly
yesterday a missile strike by the group
on a Liberian owned cargo ship resulted
in three crew members being
killed there likely to be calls to Step
Up action like this joint us and UK air
strikes on Targets in Yemen last month
but so far the houthis haven't been
deterred these are pictures of its
forces actually seizing a ship in
November the Iranian backed Group which
controls most of Northern Yemen has been
targeting ships in the area for months
in protest at Israel's offensive in the
Gaza
Strip This latest action is a major
escalation the ship hits by houthis
yesterday was the mvy true confidence
the belt carrier was sailing with a crew
of 20 who were mainly Filipino Nationals
the attack happened about 50 nautical
miles from the yemeni port
Aiden the ship was traveling from China
to Saudi Arabia the US condemned the
attack saying it went Way Beyond
disruption to navigation in
international Seas not just
endangered seaf fares but now tragically
killed uh a number of them so we will
continue to uh hold them accountable and
we call on governments around the world
to do the
same the houthis say the ship was
American and the crew had ignored
warnings from the houthi naval
forces the US and UK campaign of air
strikes has been targeting houthi launch
sites ammunition depos and control posts
these were strikes in the yemeni capital
S last month following the attack on the
MV true confidence foreign secretary
Lord Cameron said UK will continue to
stand up for freedom of navigation and
back its words with
actions but the houthis have huge
supplies of drones and missiles this
cargo ship the ruim mar was hit by a
missile last month it finally sank at
the weekend and now poses an
environmental risk Aruna AER BBC
News Isa Mesi is senior Yemen adviser
with the European Institute of Peace we
asked him whether the US UK coalition's
efforts to stop the houthi attacks had
had any impact unfortunately it isn't
and one of the things the misconceptions
is that they'll manage to put a dent to
their operations or at sometime the huis
will run out of their stockpile what
they don't understand is the houis over
the past nine years they've developed
the capacity to build their own missiles
locally in addition to receiving
shipments that are being smuggled from
Iran through various routes to the h so
they're not going to run out of their
missiles or their drones if anything
they're actually increasing their
stockpile and also increasing the
sophisticated kind of Weaponry that is
arriving to them and so you'll see
additional um well Weaponry coming into
Yemen more sophisticated ones but also
the attacks are going to be more deadly
more fatal as time passes by